CFC-11, CFC-12, CFC-113, and |SF6|
=========================================

PIs
  * Dong-Ha Min (University of Texas (Austin))
Analysts
  * David Cooper
  * Mark Lopez
  * Garrett Walsh

Samples for the analyses of the dissolved chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs, freons) F11 and F12, sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) and nitrous oxide (N2O) were collected and analyzed during TN366. Seawater samples were taken from all casts, with full profiles generally taken from alternating casts and strategically determined bottles sampled from the remaining casts. These measurements are complemented by periodic measurements of air samples.
Seawater samples were drawn from 10 liter Niskin bottles. Samples for CFC and SF6 were the first samples drawn, taking care to check the integrity of the sample and coordinate the sampling analysts to minimize any time between the initial opening of each bottle and the completion of sample drawing. To minimize contact with air, the CFC samples were drawn directly through the stopcocks of the Niskin bottles into 250 ml precision glass syringes. Syringes were rinsed and filled via three-way plastic stopcocks. The syringes were subsequently held at 0-5 degrees C until 30 minutes before being analyzed.  At that time, the syringe was placed in a bath of surface seawater heated at approximately 30 degrees C.
For atmospheric sampling, a ~90 m length of 3/8" OD Dekaron tubing was run from the main lab to the bow of the ship. A flow of air was drawn through this line into the main laboratory using an air-cadet pump. The air was compressed in the pump, with the downstream pressure held at ~1.5 atm. using a backpressure regulator. A tee allowed a flow (100 ml min-1) of the compressed air to be directed to the gas sample valves of the CFC  analytical systems, while the bulk flow of the air (>7 l min-1) was vented through the backpressure regulator.  Analysis of bow air was performed at several locations along the cruise track. Approximately five measurements were made at each location to increase the precision. Atmospheric data were not submitted to the database, but were found to be in excellent agreement with current global databases.

Concentrations of CFC-1l, CFC-12, SF6 and N2O in air samples, seawater samples and gas standards were measured by shipboard electron capture gas chromatography (ECD-GC) using techniques described by Bullister and Wisegarver (2008). This method has been modified with the addition of an extra ECD to accommodate N2O analysis.  For seawater analyses, water was transferred from a glass syringe to a glass-sparging chamber (~200 ml). The dissolved gases in the seawater sample were extracted by passing a supply of CFC-free purge gas through the sparging chamber for a period of 6 minutes at 120 - 140 ml/min. Water vapor was removed from the purge gas by passage through a Nafion drier, backed up by a 18 cm long, 3/8" diameter glass tube packed with the desiccant magnesium perchlorate. The sample gases were concentrated on a cold-trap consisting of a 1/16" OD stainless steel tube with a ~5 cm section packed tightly with Porapak Q (60-80 mesh), a 22 cm section packed with Carboxen 1004 and a 2.5 cm section packed with molecular sieve MS5A. A neslab cryocool was used to cool the trap, to below -50°C.  After 6 minutes of purging, the trap was isolated, and it was heated electrically to ~150°C. The sample gases held in the trap were then injected onto a precolumn (~60 cm of 1/8" O.D. stainless steel tubing packed with 80-100 mesh Porasil B, held at 80°C) for the initial separation of CFC-12 and CFC-11 from later eluting peaks.  After the F12 had passed from the pre-column through the second pre-column (22 cm of 1/8" O.D. Stainless steel tubing packed with Molecular Sieve 5A, 100/120 mesh) and into the analytical column #1 (~170 cm of 1/8" OD stainless steel tubing packed with MS5A and held at 80°C) the outflow from the first precolumn was diverted to the second analytical column (~150 cm 1/8" OD stainless steel tubing packed with Carbograph 1AC, 80-100 mesh, held at 80°C). After F11 had passed through the first precolumn, the flow was diverted to a third analytical column (1/8” stainless steel tube with 30cm Molecular Sieve 5A, 60/80 mesh) for N2O analysis. The first pre-column was then backflushed and vented. The first two analytical columns and precolumn 1 were held isothermal at 80 degrees C in an Agilent (HP) 6890N gas chromatograph with two electron capture detectors (250°C). The third analytical column and second pre-column were held at 160C in a Shimadzu GC-8A gas chromatogram. The ECD in the Shimadzu was held at 250C.

The analytical system was calibrated using a blended standard gas (seawater ratio, PMEL 464568), with further reference to a second atmospheric ratio standard (PMEL 72615). Gas sample loops of known volume were thoroughly flushed with standard gas and injected into the system. The temperature and pressure was recorded so that the amount of gas injected could be calculated. The procedures used to transfer the standard gas to the trap, precolumn, main chromatographic column, and EC detector were similar to those used for analyzing water samples. Four sizes of gas sample loops were used. Multiple injections of these loop volumes could be made to allow the system to be calibrated over a relatively wide range of concentrations. Air samples and system blanks (injections of loops of CFC-free gas) were injected and analyzed in a similar manner. The typical analysis time for seawater, air, standard or blank samples was ~12 minutes.  Concentrations of the CFCs in air, seawater samples, and gas standards are reported relative to the SIO98 calibration scale (e.g. Bullister and Tanhua, 2010). Concentrations in air and standard gas are reported in units of mole fraction CFC in dry gas, and are typically in the parts per trillion (ppt) range. Dissolved CFC concentrations are given in units of picomoles per kilogram seawater (pmol kg-1). CFC concentrations in air and seawater samples were determined by fitting their chromatographic peak areas to multi-point calibration curves, generated by injecting multiple sample loops of gas from a working standard (PMEL cylinder 464568) into the analytical instrument. The response of the detector to the range of moles of CFC passing through the detector remained relatively constant during the cruise. Full-and partial-range calibration curves were run several times during the cruise. Single injections of a fixed volume of standard gas at one atmosphere were run much more frequently (at intervals of ~90 minutes) to monitor short-term changes in detector sensitivity.

The purging efficiency of the stripper was estimated by re-purging a high-concentration water sample and measuring this residual signal. At a flow rate of 120 cc min -1 for 6 minutes, the purging efficiency for SF6 and F12 was greater than 99%, the efficiency for F11 was about 99%. The purging efficiency for N2O was about 95%, but subject to some degree of variability due to changes in flow rate and purging temperature. Although correction is made for this variability, N2O data from stations 1-22 were rather more compromised than subsequent data.

Results of 1461 seawater samples are reported from 55 stations, with data for SF6, F12 and F11. Additional data for N2O will likely be submitted after further post-cruise quality control. Duplicates were taken from 32 stations to estimate precision and run variability tests. Low-level samples were selected from deep casts and higher level (surface) samples were mostly taken from the ship’s underway sampling system. From the surface samples, we calculate the average deviation to be less than 0.5% from the mean of the pairs for F12, F11 and N2O measurements, and 1.6% from the mean for SF6 measurements.  Deviation from the mean of pairs from deeper samples averaged less than 2% (or 0.01 pM) from the mean for F12 and F11 and approximately 0.04 fM for SF6. Due to the exceedingly low levels of SF6 present in deeper water, accurate estimates of precision are not possible. A very small number of additional water samples had anomalous SF6 or CFC concentrations relative to adjacent samples. These samples occurred sporadically during the cruise and were not clearly associated with other features in the water column (e.g., anomalous dissolved oxygen, salinity, or temperature features).

References
Bullister, J.L. and T. Tanhua. 2010. Sampling and Measurement of Chlorofluorocarbons and Sulfur Hexafluoride in Seawater. In: The GO-SHIP Repeat Hydrography Manual: A Collection of Expert Reports and Guidelines. IOCCP Report No. 14, ICPO Publication series No. 134, Version 1.
Bullister, J.L. and D.P. Wisegarver. 2008. The shipboard analysis of trace levels of sulfur hexafluoride, chlorofluorocarbon-11 and chlorofluorocarbon-12 in seawater. Deep-Sea Res. I, v. 55, pp. 1063-1074.
