Total Alkalinity
================

PI
  * Andrew G. Dickson – Scripps Institution of Oceanography
Technicians
  * Manuel Belmonte
  * Wiley Wolfe

Total Alkalinity
----------------
The total alkalinity of a sea water sample is defined as the number of moles of hydrogen ion equivalent to the excess of proton acceptors (bases formed from weak acids with a dissociation constant K :math:`\leq` 10–4.5 at 25°C and zero ionic strength) over proton donors (acids with K > 10–4.5) in 1 kilogram of sample.

Total Alkalinity Measurement System
-----------------------------------
Samples are dispensed using a Sample Delivery System (SDS) consisting of a volumetric pipette, various relay valves, and two air pumps controlled by LabVIEW 2012.
Before filling the jacketed cell with a new sample for analysis, the volumetric pipette is cleared of any residual from the previous sample with the aforementioned air pumps.
The pipette is then rinsed with new sample and filled, allowing for overflow and time for the sample temperature to equilibrate.
The sample bottle temperature is measured using a DirecTemp thermistor probe inserted into the sample bottle and the volumetric pipette temperature is measured using a DirecTemp surface probe placed directly on the pipette.
These temperature measurements are used to convert the sample volume to mass for analysis.

Samples are analyzed using an open cell titration procedure using two 250 mL jacketed cells.
One sample is undergoing titration while the second is being prepared and equilibrating to 20°C for analysis.
After an initial aliquot of approximately 2.3-2.4 mL of standardized hydrochloric acid (~0.1M HCl in ~0.6M NaCl solution), the sample is stirred for 5 minutes while air is bubbled into it at a rate of 200 scc/m to remove any liberated carbon dioxide gas.
A Metrohm 876 Dosimat Plus is used for all standardized hydrochloric acid additions.
After equilibration, ~19 aliquots of 0.035 ml are added.
Between the pH range of 3.5 to 3.0, the progress of the titration is monitored using a pH glass electrode/reference electrode cell, and the total alkalinity is computed from the titrant volume and e.m.f. measurements using a non-linear least-squares approach ([Dickson2007]_).
An Agilent 34970A Data Acquisition/Switch Unit with a 34901A multiplexer is used to read the voltage measurements from the electrode and monitor the temperatures from the sample, acid, and room.
The calculations for this procedure are performed automatically using LabVIEW 2012.

Sample Collection
-----------------
Samples for total alkalinity measurements were taken at all I06S Stations (1-55).
Three or four Niskin bottles at each station were sampled twice for duplicate measurements except for stations where 24 or less Niskin bottles were sampled.
Stations at which 24 or less Niskin bottles were sample two or three Niskin bottles were sampled twice for duplicate measurements
Using silicone tubing, the total alkalinity samples were drawn from Niskin bottles into 250 mL Pyrex bottles, making sure to rinse the bottles and Teflon sleeved glass stoppers at least twice before the final filling.
A headspace of approximately 3 mL was removed and 0.05 mL of saturated mercuric chloride solution was added to each sample for preservation.
After sampling was completed, each sample’s temperature was equilibrated to approximately 20°C using a Thermo Scientific Isotemp water bath.


Problems and Troubleshooting
----------------------------
On two ocassions, during bad weather days, we shut down our total alkalnity system and upon restarting the Alkalinity 2.9j program it could not locate the running file to load the appropriate system configurations or locate
the running data file for I06S and log subsequent data. Somehow the cruise file identifier was corrupte upon shutown or restart so the program could not load the appropriate configurations. Luckily, the corrupted file identifier was
notice by the lead operator an correted to solve this issue. The second time the soure of this issue was not the corruped file identifier and the atual culprit was not found. This issue reverte the program to its default configuration,
but luckily the program was able to locate the data file.  The operator was told to input all of the appropriate configurations and was able to continue work as usual.

Throughout the cruise, glitches from the Sample Delivery System were experienced at random. The Sample Delivery System program would freeze drawing sample in Deliver Sample or Prepare Pipette mode and caused a few sample bottles
to be emptied. This resulted in 3 lost samples. Also during station 39 a shift in the Sample Delivery System's delivery volume was noticed causing smaller samples sizes to be dispensed. No further samples were run until a
calibration using a manual pipette was performed to correct this issue.


Quality Control
---------------
Dickson laboratory Certified Reference Material (CRM) Batch 178 and 180 were used to determine the accuracy of the total alkalinity analyses. The total alkalinity certified value for these batches are:

* Batch 178 2216.53 ± 0.61 μmol/kg (32;16)

* Batch 180 2224.47 ± 0.56 μmol/kg (30;15)

The cited uncertainties represent the standard deviation.
Figures in parentheses are the number of analyses made (total number of analyses; number of separate bottles analyzed).

At least one reference material was analyzed at every I06S stations resulting in 240 reference material analyses.
On I09N, the measured total alkalinity value for each batch is:

* Batch 178 2216.53± 2.25 μmol kg-1 (83) [mean ± std. dev. (n)]

* Batch 180 2224.00± 1.56 μmol kg-1 (157) [mean ± std. dev. (n)]


If greater than 24 Niskin bottles were sampled at a station, three or four Niskin bottles on that station were sampled twice to conduct duplicate analyses.
If 24 or less Niskin bottles were sampled at a station, two or three Niskins on that station were sampled twice for duplicate analyses.
The standard deviation for the duplicates measured on I06S is:

Duplicate Standard Deviation ± 1.55 µmol kg–1 (143) [± std. dev. (n)]

The total alkalinity measurements for each I06S stations have been compared to measurements taken from the neighboring I06S 2019 stations.

1209 total alkalinity values were submitted for I06S.
Further volume and dilution corrections need to be applied to this data and will not be applied until onshore, therefore this data is to be considered premilinary.
