Oxygen Analysis
===============

PIs
  * Susan Becker
  * James Swift
Technicians
  * Andrew Barna
  * Zac Anderson

Equipment and Techniques
------------------------

Dissolved oxygen analyses were performed with an SIO/ODF-designed automated oxygen titrator using photometric end-point detection based on the absorption of 365nm wavelength ultra-violet light.
The titration of the samples and the data logging were controlled by PC LabView software. Thiosulfate was dispensed by a Dosimat 665 buret driver fitted with a 1.0 ml burette.

ODF used a whole-bottle modified-Winkler titration following the technique of Carpenter [Carpenter1965]_ with modifications by [Culberson1991]_ but with higher concentrations of potassium iodate standard (~0.012 N), and thiosulfate solution (~55 g/L).

Pre-made liquid potassium iodate standards and reagent/distilled water blanks were run every day (approximately every 3-4 stations), with samples analysed within 24 hours of the last standard.

Sampling and Data Processing
----------------------------

A total of 1952 oxygen measurements were made, of which 1880 were niskin samples and 72 were underway samples.
Niskin samples were collected soon after the rosette was secured on deck, either from fresh niskins or immediately following CFC sampling.

Nominal 125 mL volume-calibrated biological oxygen demand (BOD) flasks were rinsed 3 times with minimal agitation using a silicone draw tube, then filled and allowed to overflow for at least 3 flask volumes, ensuring no bubbles remained. Pickling reagents MnCl2 and NaI/NaOH (1 mL of each) were added via bottle-top dispensers to fix samples before stoppering. Flasks were shaken twice (10-12 inversions) to assure thorough dispersion of the precipitate - once immediately after drawing and then again after 30-60 minutes.

Sample draw temperatures, measured with an electronic resistance temperature detector (RTD) embedded in the draw tube, were used to calculate umol/kg concentrations, and as a diagnostic check of bottle integrity.

Niskin samples were analysed within 2-12 hours of collection, and the data incorporated into the cruise database. Underway samples were analysed within 96 hours of collection.

Thiosulfate normalities were calculated for each standardisation and corrected to 20°C. The 20°C thiosulfate normalities and blanks were plotted versus time and were reviewed for possible problems, and were subsequently determined to be stable enough that no smoothing was required.

Volumetric Calibration
----------------------

Oxygen flask volumes were determined gravimetrically with degassed deionised water to determine flask volumes at ODF's chemistry laboratory. This is done once before using flasks for the first time and periodically thereafter when a suspect volume is detected. The 10 mL Dosimat buret used to dispense standard iodate solution was calibrated using the same method.

Standards
---------

Liquid potassium iodate standards were prepared in 6 L batches and bottled in sterile glass bottles at ODF's chemistry laboratory prior to the expedition. The normality of the liquid standard was determined by calculation from weight. The standard was supplied by Alfa Aesar and has a reported purity of 99.4-100.4%. All other reagents were "reagent grade" and were tested for levels of oxidising and reducing impurities prior to use.

Narrative
---------
Cruise setup began on March 28th 2019 in Cape Town, South Africa.

The initial thiosulfate batch was discarded due to flaky material in the solution that would not dissolve. The problem was pinpointed as an improperly cleaned 4 L reagent jug. Subsequent thiosulfate batches were made independently as needed throughout the cruise in a clean 1 L reagent bottle.

During setup, it was discovered that many ODF oxygen standard bottles were leaking slightly from around the sealed cap when opened, an egregious standard was not used, but others  were used as normal throughout the cruise.
No differences were noted in Thiosulfate normality when any ODF standard was changed.
Otherwise, setup ran smoothly and the analysis rig was running, secured, and standardised before leaving port on April 3rd.

Following a 5-day delay caused by a failed engine water pump, underway samples were collected every 4 hours during the 8-day transit to the first station.

Some slight stepping was seen during titration endpoints, usually beginning after halfway through a sample run.
This was caused by fluctuation in UV lamp voltage and solved by power cycling the UV lamp power supply.
The power supply was temporarily swapped out with an older spare.
However, this was found to have the same issue but more persistently, so the original power supply was reinstalled.
This issue had no impact on sample analysis quality.

Science was temporarily halted after station 45 for a medical evacuation to Port Elizabeth, during which underway samples were collected every 4 hours, and then again following a successful drop-off until station 46 was reached and normal science activities resumed.

An OSIL oxygen standard was run against the usual ODF oxygen standard during the last standardisation of the cruise.
The OSIL standard resulted in thiosulfate normality within specification of the ODF oxygen standard, which confirmed the leaking standard caps discovered at the beginning of the cruise did not adversely impact the integrity of the standards.
The OSIL standardisation followed the same procedure as normal with the exception of using an Eppendorf pipette to dispense the standard.

The need for smoothing thiosulfate normality was considered separately for each thiosulfate batch (3 in total).
There was no drift or trend observed in any of the batches, so no smoothing procedure was performed.


.. [Carpenter1965] Carpenter, J. H., “The Chesapeake Bay Institute technique for the Winkler dissolved oxygen method,” Limnology and Oceanography, 10, pp. 141-143 (1965).

.. [Culberson1991] Culberson, C. H., Knapp, G., Stalcup, M., Williams, R. T., and Zemlyak, F., “A comparison of methods for the deter mination of dissolved oxygen in seawater,” Repor t WHPO 91-2, WOCE Hydrographic Programme Office (Aug 1991).
