Student Statements
==================

Daniela Faggiani Dias
---------------------

GO-SHIP has provided me with an invaluable experience by giving me the
opportunity to sail with the RV Thompson for the I06S line. My work at SIO
focuses on identifying predictable patterns in the ocean and the
atmosphere on time scales longer than seasonal. I use a suite of long time
series of observational data and modelling experiments to identify such
patterns and to better understand the mechanisms that give rise to those
predictable scales. The data that I use for this project usually comes in
the format of a final product: data from many years, collected in many
ways, compiled, processed, and interpolated. Numbers on the screen of my
computer. However, being at sea and helping to collect data for many
projects has helped me immensely to understand the complexity involved in
generating such datasets. As my grandmother says, “It is good to know
where your food comes from.”

My main role during the cruise was as CTD watch stander. The job consists
in preparing the Rosette before each cast, overseeing the CTD cast once
the Rosette is in the water and triggering the bottles to collect water at
different depths. In addition to this, I was helping to collect water
samples for salinity and alkalinity and helping with the deployment of
drifters and ARGO floats. I was also responsible of download the data and
troubleshooting the Chi-pods (those are instruments that measure the
acceleration and temperature derivatives to estimate the turbulent
mixing). All those tasks helped me to appreciate the behind the scenes of
all the effort that is put to perform every CTD cast, to collect and to
run every water sample, to process the data and to make sure that all the
equipment is working well with the minimal error possible. It also helped
me to better understand all the limitations that we have when working with
observational oceanography and the colossal effort that is required to
make everything run smoothly. And, even with all the care that the
scientists and the crew put when organizing the cruise, unfortunate and
unexpected events may happen and sometimes not everything can be accounted
for. In this cruise, we had many of those unfortunate events: engine
problems, weather days, medical emergency evacuation, flooding inside the
ship and many problems with the CTD “fish”, that had to be replaced a few
times. It is great to be able to see that, despite all those unfortunate
events, we are building a great and reliable database to better understand
different aspects of the ocean and how it has been changing.

Besides the professional aspects of the cruise, there is something else
that cannot be forgotten: personal growth. During the six weeks of the
cruise, you have to share small spaces with the same few people. There are
not many distractions. Time has a different pace. There is plenty of time
to talk to your colleagues without the distraction of our everyday life.
Because of that, the rush that we are used to in our lives does not play a
role here and we are more able to make real and deep human connections.

As the cruise comes to an end, I will miss being at sea. I will miss the
feeling of the ship dancing with the waves in a perfect synchrony. I will
miss walking upstairs to the bridge and, for hours, staring at the ocean.
In the rough days, staring at the 50 feet waves, staring at the ship
navigating throughout those seas. I will miss the turquoise color of the
ocean when those waves break, a moment of such delicacy that contrasts
with the roughness of the environment that surround us. I will also miss
the few moments we had of quiet and glassy seas, the very few sunny days
when we could sit outside in the back deck and the beautiful skies in the
night, when we could see and try to guess the constellations in the
Southern Hemisphere. I will miss being at sea.

I truly appreciate the opportunity that was given by the Go SHIP program.

Maximilian Kotz
---------------

As an incoming graduate student, I felt very lucky to take part in the
2019 GO-SHIP IO6S cruise before actually starting grad school. While
primarily on the cruise to deploy two sea gliders for my PI, I had also
volunteered to participate in the CTD watch with the other 5 graduate
students on board. My offer to do so could not have been better rewarded.
After 6 weeks of over-seeing CTD casts, taking water samples for a variety
of properties and deploying numerous SOCCOM floats and drifters as well as
the two sea gliders, I feel I have been thoroughly initiated into the
world of oceanography.

Learning first hand about measurement and deployment techniques has given
me a respect and understanding for the data that beforehand I had
downloaded and analysed with little appreciation. Plotting underway data
as we transit and discussing CTD data as we cast has helped me to learn
about the structure of the southern ocean. Seeing the beauty of the oceans
we study has deepened my desire to learn about them. But perhaps most
importantly, working alongside such skilled, dedicated technicians and
scientists has been an absolute pleasure. The atmosphere of the sampling
bay was equal parts professionalism and hilarity; and the guidance of
co-chief scientist Isa Rosso with all things scientific and personal was
nothing short of exceptional.

I am grateful to GO-SHIP for the opportunity to be part of this cruise and
I hope to have the opportunity to do so again in the future. I look
forward to piloting the gliders over the coming months and to using their
and SOCCOM’s data over the coming years in my PhD.


Michael Kovatch
---------------

I applied to the GO-SHIP I06S cruise in order to experience being out in the field
on a large research vessel, work with oceanographic data collection, and to sample
in a new part of the ocean. Field work is one of my favorite aspects of
oceanography, but all of my previous work has been shorter, closer to shore, and on
smaller vessels and boats. Previously working only in the Gulf of Mexico and off of
central California, the opportunity to travel to the Southern Hemisphere and spend
time in the Indian and Southern Oceans was an exciting prospect.

My duties at sea were varied and interesting, so no point of the cruise ever felt
boring. My primary role was being a CTD watchstander, which involved monitoring the
live data outputs of temperature, salinity, density, oxygen, fluorescence, and more
as the rosette was lowered to 10 meters above the ocean bottom. This also meant
communicating with the winch operator to ensure the wire tension was kept in an
acceptable range and firing Niskin bottles on the upcasts to collect water samples
which would subsequently be analyzed at the surface. Once the rosette was recovered,
I assisted in sampling alkalinity, salts, and dO18. The other watchstanders and I
also took turns being 'sample cop', which meant keeping track of and policing
the order in which people were allowed to sample from the Niskin bottles to ensure
high-quality samples of CFCs, oxygen, carbon, and pH.

In addition to watchstander responsibilities, I was one of the students trained to
work with the chipods, which are high-frequency temperature sensors that are used to
infer small-scale mixing. This required beginning data acquisition and monitoring
that the values of temperature, etc. made sense. Lastly, I assisted with deployments
of Argo floats and surface drifters.

Overall, this cruise has been an excellent experience. I met so many interesting
people who were able to provide further insight into the diversity of oceanographic
research and careers. It was helpful in reaffirming my passion for being in the
field and collecting data. The cruise was a great environment to work in, with
endless camaraderie, stories, and deep discussions. I am very grateful for the time
I got to spend on the R/V Thompson with the rest of the crew, both science and ship.
I hope to be able to participate in future cruises!

Loicka Baille
-------------

As an undergraduate student, being able to join a cruise so early in my
career has been a rare and incredibly opportunity. I’m very thankful for
my advisor, Alejandro Orsi for this chance. I was part of the CTD
watch-stander team which was in charge of preparing the rosette, firing
bottles, and collecting salinity samples. I also volunteered to help
collect alkalinity and oxygen 18 samples. This cruise allowed me to work
with world class instruments and scientists, and see first-hand how
science is being done, and how data is collected. Being around so many
graduate students, I am much better informed on what graduate school
consists of, what criteria to look for when applying and what different
tracks might be out there.

Being an undergraduate student leaving to go on a cruise mid-semester, I
had to take the remaining of my classes online. Taking 7 classes while
working 12 hours shifts and having limited internet connection was
definitely one of the most challenging part of this cruise. I’m grateful
to my teammates, work technicians and professors for supporting and
helping me getting my classes done.
Aside from science and classes, there was some free time left. It was
filled with card games, board games, ping-pong tournaments, and
jaw-dropping pranks among the science team.

I’m extremely thankful for having the chance to work with wonderful people
that made this experience incredibly enjoyable while instructive. I'm
grateful to the GO-SHIP program for providing me with this wonderful
opportunity and hope to continue to participate and contribute to future
cruises as well.
